Objective
Prepare a dataset of Functional Requirements (FRs) and corresponding Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs) to train, test, and evaluate the effectiveness of the LLM pipeline. Ensure the dataset is structured, diverse, and aligned with the project's objectives.

Dataset Source
Primary Dataset: ReqView Example Software Requirements Specification (SRS).
A standard requirements specification document, ideal for extracting FRs and related quality attributes.
Augmentation: Enhance the dataset with synthetic and domain-specific examples to cover a wide range of scenarios.
Steps for Dataset Preparation
Extraction:

Extract Functional Requirements (FRs) from the ReqView dataset.
Identify potential quality attributes associated with each FR, either explicitly or implicitly mentioned in the dataset.
Cleaning:

Remove duplicates and irrelevant requirements that do not contribute to meaningful NFR generation.
Address ambiguities by rephrasing unclear FRs for consistency.
Annotation:

Label FRs with their corresponding NFRs using domain expertise or reference standards.
Include key quality attributes (e.g., performance, security, usability, scalability) for each FR.
Augmentation:

Synthetic Data: Generate additional FR-NFR pairs using expert knowledge and common industry scenarios (e.g., e-commerce, healthcare, finance).
Domain-Specific Data: Add examples from different domains to test the model's adaptability and generalizability.
Structuring:

Convert the dataset into a machine-readable format (e.g., JSON or CSV).
Example structure:
json
Copy code
{
  "FunctionalRequirement": "The system shall allow users to log in using a username and password.",
  "Domain": "Authentication",
  "ExpectedNFRs": ["Security", "Usability", "Performance"]
}
Validation:

Cross-check the dataset for completeness and correctness with domain experts or established standards (e.g., IEEE 830).
Ensure a balance between generic and domain-specific requirements.
Dataset Statistics
Number of FRs: Target at least 100–200 examples for initial testing.
Number of NFRs per FR: Aim for 3–5 quality attributes per FR.
Domain Coverage: Include diverse domains such as banking, healthcare, education, e-commerce, and IoT.
Challenges and Mitigation Strategies
Ambiguity in FRs:

Use domain expertise to rephrase or clarify ambiguous FRs.
Include multiple reviewers to ensure consensus.
Limited Domain Coverage:

Augment the dataset with publicly available examples and standards.
Generate synthetic data for underrepresented domains.
Dataset Imbalance:

Ensure an even distribution of FR types (e.g., functional, performance-critical, security-focused).
Output
A well-structured and annotated dataset ready for use in training, testing, and evaluating the LLM pipeline. This dataset will serve as the foundation for measuring the model’s ability to generate relevant and comprehensive NFRs.

Next Steps
Test the dataset by running a sample FR-NFR pair through the LLM to assess the initial quality of generated outputs.
Refine the dataset based on preliminary results and feedback.